Release 2.14.14 (#11622)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.14.14

## Support for custom prefect.yaml deployment configuration files

You can now specify a `prefect.yaml` deployment configuration file while running `prefect deploy` by using the 
`--prefect-file` command line argument. This means that your configuration files can be in any directory 
and can follow your own naming conventions. By using this feature, you will have more flexibility in defining 
and managing your deployments.

See the following PR for implementation details:

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511

## Toggle Deployment Schedule Status via `prefect.yaml`

You can now toggle your deployment schedules between active and inactive in your prefect.yaml. This enables you to create deployments with initially inactive schedules, allowing for thorough testing or staged rollouts. 

> 

Reviewer: @collincchoy we lost Pickett's PR from here so we'll want to add that back

## Support for Python 3.12

You can now install `prefect` using Python 3.12. This support is experimental and will be hardened in future releases.

See the following PR for details:

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11306

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

one too many spaces

### Enhancements

> - Add an option through the CLI and python client to remove schedules from deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add an option through the CLI and Python client to remove schedules from deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353
```

> - Add client methods to interact with global concurrency limit apis — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add client methods to interact with global concurrency limit APIs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415
```

> - Make name optional when saving a loaded block — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11592

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make `name` optional when saving an existing block — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11592
```

> - Make subflows optional with `run_deployment` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11611

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make running a flow run as a subflow in `run_deployment` optional — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11611
```

- Improve IDE support for `PrefectObjectRegistry.register_instances` decorated classes — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11617
- Make the UI accessible via reverse proxy and add a `--no-install` flag to `prefect dev build-ui` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11489

### Fixes

> - Use default values (if any) if no run input is provided on resume — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11598

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use default values (if any) when no run input is provided upon `resume` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11598
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.14.14

## Support for custom prefect.yaml deployment configuration files

You can now specify a `prefect.yaml` deployment configuration file while running `prefect deploy` by using the 
`--prefect-file` command line argument. This means that your configuration files can be in any directory 
and can follow your own naming conventions. Using this feature provides more flexibility in defining 
and managing your deployments.

See the following PR for implementation details:

> - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11624
```

Reviewer: ^ is Uriel's docs PR

## Support for Python 3.12

You can now install `prefect` using Python 3.12. This support is experimental and will be hardened in future releases.

See the following PR for details:

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11306

### Enhancements
- Add an option through the CLI and python client to remove schedules from deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353
- Add client methods to interact with global concurrency limit apis — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415
- Make name optional when saving a loaded block — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11592
- Make subflows optional with `run_deployment` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11611
- Improve IDE support for `PrefectObjectRegistry.register_instances` decorated classes — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11617
- Make the UI accessible via reverse proxy and add a `--no-install` flag to `prefect dev build-ui` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11489

> - Improve UI build when using `prefect server start` - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11493

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve UI build during `prefect server start` - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11493
```

> - Improve error message when using `.deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11615

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve error message in `.deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11615
```

### Fixes

> - Use default values (if any) if no run input is provided on resume — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11598

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use default values (if any) when no run input is provided upon `resume` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11598
```

- Prevent deployments with `RRule` schedules containing `COUNT` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11600
- Fix flows with class-based type hints based on `from __future__ import annotations` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11578 & https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11616
- Raise `StepExecutionError` on non-zero `run_shell_script` return code during `prefect deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11604

### Experimental
- Enable flow runs to receive typed input from external sources — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11573

### Documentation
- Fix non-rendering link in Docker guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11574
- Update deployment and flow concept docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11576

> - Add examples for custom triggers for automations — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11589

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add examples for custom triggers to automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11589
```

- Add send/receive documentation to `run_input` module docstring — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11591

> - Add Automations Guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10559

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add Automations guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10559
```

- Fix storage guide links and reference — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11602

> - Fix typo in deploy guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11606

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix typo in `prefect deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11606
```

i'm only guessing but I think this is what you're referring to? or `.deploy`? or both?

> - Fix imports in t-shirt example of human-in-the-loop guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11612

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix imports in human-in-the-loop guide example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11612
```

> - Add more imports to creating-human-in-the-loop-workflows.md — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11614

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add imports human-in-the-loop workflows example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11614
```

> - Fix formatting — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562

Reviewer: where?

> - Remove "Notification blocks must be pre-configured" warning from automations — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11569

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove "Notification blocks must be pre-configured" warning from automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11569
```

> - Update work-pools.md to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.14.14

## Support for custom prefect.yaml deployment configuration files

You can now specify a `prefect.yaml` deployment configuration file while running `prefect deploy` by using the 
`--prefect-file` command line argument. This means that your configuration files can be in any directory 
and can follow your own naming conventions. Using this feature provides more flexibility in defining 
and managing your deployments.

> See the following PR for implementation details:
> 
> - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the following PR for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511
```

- Fix typo in `prefect deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11606
- Fix imports in human-in-the-loop workflows guide example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11612
- Add missing imports to human-in-the-loop workflows example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11614
- Fix formatting in `prefect deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562
- Remove "Notification blocks must be pre-configured" warning from automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11569
- Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584

### New Contributors
- @brett-koonce made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562
- @jitvimol made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584
- @oz-elhassid made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353
- @Zyntogz made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415
- @Andrew-S-Rosen made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11578

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.14.13...2.14.14
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 2.14.14

## Support for custom prefect.yaml deployment configuration files

You can now specify a `prefect.yaml` deployment configuration file while running `prefect deploy` by using the 
`--prefect-file` command line argument. This means that your configuration files can be in any directory 

> and can follow your own naming conventions. By using this feature, you will have more flexibility in defining 
> and managing your deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and can follow your own naming conventions. Using this feature provides more flexibility in defining 
and managing your deployments.
```

See the following PR for implementation details:

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11511

## Toggle Deployment Schedule Status via `prefect.yaml`

> You can now toggle your deployment schedules between active and inactive in your prefect.yaml. This enables you to create deployments with initially inactive schedules, allowing for thorough testing or staged rollouts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now toggle your deployment schedules between `active` and `inactive` in your `prefect.yaml` configuration file. This enables you to create deployments with initially _inactive_ schedules, allowing for thorough testing or staged rollouts!
```

See the following PR for implementation details:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove extra space

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11608

## Support for Python 3.12

> You can now install `prefect` using Python 3.12. This support is experimental and will be hardened in future releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now install `prefect` using Python 3.12! This support is experimental and will be hardened in future releases.
```

See the following PR for implementation details:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

rm extra space

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11306

### Enhancements
- Add an option through the CLI and Python client to remove schedules from deployments — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353
- Add client methods to interact with global concurrency limit APIs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415
- Make `name` optional when saving an existing block — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11592

> - Make making a flow as a subflow in `run_deployment`  optional — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11611

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make marking a flow as a subflow in `run_deployment`  optional — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11611
```
maybe?

- Raise `StepExecutionError` on non-zero `run_shell_script` return code during `prefect deploy` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11604

### Experimental
- Enable flow runs to receive typed input from external sources — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11573

### Documentation
- Fix non-rendering link in Docker guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11574
- Update deployment and flow concept docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11576
- Add examples for custom triggers to automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11589
- Add send/receive documentation to `run_input` module docstring — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11591
- Add automations guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/10559
- Fix storage guide links and reference — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11602
- Fix typo in `prefect deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11606
- Fix imports in human-in-the-loop workflows guide example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11612
- Add missing imports to human-in-the-loop workflows example — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11614

> - Fix formatting in `prefect-deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix formatting in `prefect deploy` guide — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562
```

> - Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584

Reviewer: - Add incident, metric, and deployment status info to automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11625

> - Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584
- Add incident, metric, and deployment status info to automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11625
```

- Remove "Notification blocks must be pre-configured" warning from automations docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11569
- Update work pools concept docs example to use correct entrypoint — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584

### New Contributors
- @brett-koonce made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11562
- @jitvimol made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11584
- @oz-elhassid made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11353
- @Zyntogz made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11415
- @Andrew-S-Rosen made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11578

> 

Reviewer: I think we're missing the diff that usually sits here

Reviewer: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/11622/files#r1449441310 will resolve it
